


3 tier architecture:
1. Presentation layer (UI) - also known as the user interface layer
2. Application Layer (AL) - also known as the business logic layer (BLL)
3. Data access layer (DAL) - also known as the repository layer

Backend and server:
Backend refers to the server-side of an application, which includes the database, server, and application logic.
The backend is responsible for processing requests from the frontend (UI) and returning the appropriate responses.

Server:
Server is a computer or system that provides resources, data, services, or programs to other computers, known as clients, over a network. 
Servers can host websites, manage databases, and handle application logic.

=> IP address:An IP address (Internet Protocol address) is a unique identifier assigned to each device connected to a network
    that uses the Internet Protocol for communication. It serves two main functions: identifying the host or network interface and 
    providing the location of the host in the network.

=> DNS (Domain Name System):DNS is a hierarchical system that translates human-readable domain names (like www.example.com) 
    into IP addresses that computers use to identify each other on the network.
    It acts as a phonebook for the internet, allowing users to access websites and services using easy-to-remember 
    names instead of numerical IP addresses.

=> HTTP (Hypertext Transfer Protocol):HTTP is the protocol used for transmitting hypertext (web pages) over the internet.
    It defines how messages are formatted and transmitted, and how web servers and browsers should respond to various commands. 
    HTTP is the foundation of data communication on the World Wide Web.

=> HTTPS (Hypertext Transfer Protocol Secure):HTTPS is an extension of HTTP that adds a layer of security by using SSL/TLS encryption.
    It ensures that the data transmitted between the user's browser and the web server is encrypted and secure from eavesdropping or tampering.
    HTTPS is commonly used for secure online transactions, such as banking and e-commerce.

=>IP Address: An IP address (Internet Protocol address) is a unique identifier assigned to each device connected to a network 
    that uses the Internet Protocol for communication. It serves two main functions: identifying the host or network interface 
    and providing the location of the host in the network.
    Ipv4 (Internet Protocol version 4) is the most widely used version of the Internet Protocol, which uses a 32-bit address format
    Ipv6 (Internet Protocol version 6) is the successor to IPv4, designed to address the limitations of IPv4, such as the limited number of available addresses.
    IPv6 uses a 128-bit address format, allowing for a significantly larger number of unique addresses compared to IPv4.

=>Protocol: A protocol is a set of rules and conventions that define how data is transmitted and received over a network. 
    Protocols ensure that devices can communicate effectively and understand each other's messages. Examples of protocols 
    include HTTP, HTTPS, FTP, and TCP/IP.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DAY 2:  Git and GitHub:
1. Tracking Area or Staging area: The staging area is a place where you can prepare changes before committing them to the repository. 
                                  It allows you to review and organize your changes before finalizing them.
2. Repository: A repository is a storage location for your project's files and version history. It can be local (on your computer) 
               or remote (on a server like GitHub).

Commands:
1. git init: Initializes a new Git repository in the current directory.
2. git add: Adds files to the staging area.

    => git add <filename/folder>
    => git add filename filename ...
    => git add./git add-A : Adds all changes (new, modified, and deleted files) to the staging area. 
    
3. git commit: Commits the changes in the staging area to the repository.

    => git commit -m "commit message": Commits the changes with a descriptive message.

4. git push: Pushes the committed changes to a remote repository.
5. git pull: Pulls the latest changes from a remote repository.
6. git clone: Creates a copy of a remote repository on your local machine. 
7. git status: Displays the current status of the repository, including changes that have been staged, modified, or untracked.
8. git log: Shows the commit history of the repository.
9. git branch: Lists all branches in the repository and indicates the current branch.
10. git checkout: Switches to a different branch or restores files in the working directory.
    => git checkout <commit id>/<branch_name>: Switches to the specified branch.
